A contact is a person. Not a lead, not a deal. A human being with a phone number who may do business with us once, five times, or never.
That distinction matters because of how everything else hangs together. Deals attach to contacts. Appointments attach to contacts. Calls, texts, tasks and notes all attach to contacts.
The contact record is the spine, and everything else is ribs coming off it. It gives you one place to answer the question, what is going on with this person.
Each person gets one contact record and keeps it forever. Someone who buys a house in March and sells one through us two years later is the same contact with a second deal attached.
This is the rule people break most often, usually with good intentions. They cannot immediately find someone, so they create them again. Now there are two.
The damage is real. Their history splits in half. The follow up system looks at both and concludes both have gone cold. And two people can work the same client without either knowing.
So search before you create. Name, phone or email. It takes three seconds and it is the easiest thing you can do to keep this database worth trusting.
Opening someone gives you their whole relationship with the company on one page.
Their details and lead source at the top. Every deal they have with us, across all four businesses. And underneath, a timeline of every call, text, appointment and note in date order.
That timeline is what makes a handover possible. If you are covering for someone, you read the last few entries and you know where things stand before you dial.
Adding someone new. The form looks long, but almost all of it is optional.
Full name and phone number. That is genuinely the whole minimum.
Everything else can be filled in later. The alternative is worse. A perfect record you never created because the call ended before you finished typing.
Lead source is not required and should be treated as if it were. It is the only way the company learns which advertising actually produces business.
Every contact saved without a source makes the marketing picture slightly less true. Decisions about where to spend money next month are made from this field.
And a married couple buying together is one household making one decision. Add the second person to the same record so the household stays together.